Complete documentation for CL-GD can be found in the 'doc'
directory.

CL-GD also supports Nikodemus Siivola's HYPERDOC, see
<http://common-lisp.net/project/hyperdoc/> and
<http://www.cliki.net/hyperdoc>.

1. Installation (see doc/index.html for Windows instructions)

1.1. Download and install a recent version of asdf.

1.2. Download and install UFFI. CL-GD needs at least version 1.3.4 of
     UFFI to work properly. However, as of August 2003, only
     AllegroCL, CMUCL, LispWorks, SBCL, and SCL are fully supported
     because CL-GD needs the new UFFI macros WITH-CAST-POINTER and
     DEF-FOREIGN-VAR which haven't yet been ported to all UFFI
     platforms.

1.3. Download and install a recent version of GD and its supporting
     libraries libpng, zlib, libjpeg, libiconv, and libfreetype. CL-GD has
     been tested with GD 2.0.33, versions older than 2.0.28 won't
     work. Note that you won't be able to compile CL-GD unless you have
     installed all supporting libraries. This is different from using
     GD directly from C where you only have to install the libraries
     you intend to use.

1.4. Unzip and untar the file cl-gd.tgz and put the resulting
     directory wherever you want, then cd into this directory.

1.5. Compile cl-gd-glue.c into a shared library for your platform. On
     Linux this would be

       gcc -fPIC -c cl-gd-glue.c
       ld -lgd -lz -lpng -ljpeg -lfreetype -lm -liconv -shared cl-gd-glue.o -o cl-gd-glue.so
       rm cl-gd-glue.o

     For Mac OS X, use

       gcc -lgd -ljpeg -dynamiclib cl-gd-glue.c -o cl-gd-glue.dylib

1.6. Make sure that cl-gd.asd can be seen from asdf (this is usually
     achieved by a symbolic link), start your favorite Lisp, and compile
     CL-GD:

       (asdf:oos 'asdf:compile-op :cl-gd)

     From now on you can simply load CL-GD into a running Lisp image
     with

       (asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op :cl-gd)

2. Test

CL-GD comes with a simple test suite that can be used to check if it's
basically working. Note that this'll only test a subset of CL-GD. To
run the tests load CL-GD and then

       (asdf:oos 'asdf:load-op :cl-gd-test)
       (cl-gd-test:test)

If you have the georgiab.ttf TrueType font from Microsoft you can also
check the FreeType support of CL-GD with

       (cl-gd-test:test #p"/usr/X11R6/lib/X11/fonts/truetype/georgiab.ttf")

where you should obviously replace the path above with the full path
to the font on your machine.

(See the note about failed tests in the documentation.)